Review: Final Team Project Introduction
Introduction:
The final project for this course will assess the application of key programming techniques and analytic concepts introduced in this course. You and your team will import and transform a raw dataset, perform exploratory, and descriptive analysis with appropriate summary statistics and visualizations to determine and apply foundational analytic models on the data.

Project Timeline:

Module 2 (Week 2): The course instructor will group students into teams of two to three members. The project datasets will be made available for all teams.
Module 4 (Week 4): Each team should select one of the three project datasets and the programming language of their choice by the end of Module 4.
Module 7 (Week 7): Each team should submit two deliverables for the course project in the final week:
One PDF document containing code, explanations, and interpretations.
One video recording of the project presentation by all team members.
Project Datasets:

Three datasets are provided for the final project in Blackboard. Each dataset comes with a ‘readme’ text file that contains information about the origin, size, file type, missing values, column names, and descriptions of the dataset.
Dataset 1 Click for more options contains data related to the marketing campaigns of a European bank. 
Dataset 2 Click for more options has data related to house sales for a county in Washington state.
Dataset 3 Click for more options consists of annual user session data for an e-commerce company.
Requirements:
There are four sections of the final project. You and your group are expected to perform the following tasks within each section to fulfill the project requirements.

Data Importing and Pre-processing
Import dataset and describe characteristics such as dimensions, data types, file types, and import methods used
Clean, wrangle, and handle missing data
Transform data appropriately using techniques such as aggregation, normalization, and feature construction
Reduce redundant data and perform need based discretization
Data Analysis and Visualization
Identify categorical, ordinal, and numerical variables within data
Provide measures of centrality and distribution with visualizations
Diagnose for correlations between variables and determine independent and dependent variables
Perform exploratory analysis in combination with visualization techniques to discover patterns and features of interest
Data Analytics
Determine the need for a supervised or unsupervised learning method and identify dependent and independent variables
Train, test, and provide accuracy and evaluation metrics for model results
Presentation
In a 5 to 10 minutes video, briefly explain the project workflow from the code and results in your markdown notebook
State your findings from the data and provide the interpretation of results from your analysis at each stage in the project
Deliverables and Submission Format:

Implement the project in either Python or R language. Use Jupyter notebook for Python and R Markdown for R language. Within the Python or R notebook, import all packages used for the project in the first cell, use code cells for code and comments and use markdown cells for headings and descriptions. Generate a PDF document from your notebook for submission with code, comments, and explanation for analysis and results within the notebook. Divide the work equally between the team members for the first three sections, everyone needs to code.
Prepare a recorded video presentation of your project notebook using a screencasting tool such as Screencast-o-matic or Zoom to record your screen and provide a voice narration. Ensure that each member presents an equal portion of the presentation. Export the video file to an mp4 format.
You may use any recording software you wish. You may want utilize Screencast-o-matic which is integrated with Blackboard and linked below. You can access it using your USDOne account login. View the Recording Video Presentation and Submission Guidelines for MS-ADS Students Click for more options guide for additional recording instructions.
Submit the PDF document and video file on the project submission page of BlackBoard. You will use the naming convention Final Project-Team Number.pdf (e.g., Final Project-Team 1.pdf). Only one member of your team will need to submit these deliverables.